# Single backup

Protecting your recovery seed is the most important step in securing your cryptocurrency.

Your seed must be **generated and secured offline** using your Trezor hardware wallet, then backed up in physical form and stored somewhere only you can access.

Once the seed has been created and written down, check that you can restore your wallet using the seed before sending any cryptocurrency to an address generated by the device.

#### Creating a recovery seed

In Trezor Suite, your seed can be managed through **⚙️ Settings > Device.**

Trezor wallets only store one recovery seed at a time. If your seed is backed up, you can wipe the device to create new recovery seeds.

To create a backup on a new device:

1. Click on **Create Backup.**
2. Your Trezor will generate a list of words that represent all of your public and private keys across all of your coins, for all of your accounts, including your passphrase accounts.
3. Write down all of the words you see **in order,** making sure they are **spelled correctly.** Depending on your device and chosen recovery seed this is a list of 12, 18, 20, or 33 words. They must be kept in order to recover your funds if you lose access to your Trezor.

Do not store these words digitally. Do not take a picture of them or copy them to another device. To protect your backup, use the recovery seed card from your Trezor box or a steel tool from the [Trezor Shop](https://trezor.io/accessories).

#### Checking a recovery seed

To verify your seed is correct you will need your recovery seed with you. The process is slightly different for both Trezor models.

#### Trezor Model One users:

1. Select the total number of words used in your recovery seed.
2. Choose **Standard recovery** to enter the words through your computer, or **Advanced recovery** to use your Trezor. You will need to enter your PIN to begin the process.

**Standard recovery** uses your Trezor to tell you what word to enter into your computer. Some of these might not be part of your seed.

**Advanced recovery** keeps words and their order isolated on your device. Click the grid to navigate through words according to the location shown on your Trezor screen.

Once you have entered your recovery seed into the device, Trezor Suite will confirm if your recovery seed was correctly entered or not.

#### Trezor Model T users:

Spell out the words using your Trezor screen. You will never need to enter your seed phrase anywhere but on the device.

#### Recovery of a device from seed backup

To recover funds using a recovery seed, connect an empty hardware wallet to Trezor Suite and choose **Recover existing wallet** during the onboarding process.

The recovery process will allow you to enter your recovery seed using the same process as when checking your backup.

{% hint style="info" %}
Learn more about [recovery seeds](https://trezor.io/learn/a/how-to-use-a-recovery-seed) on the Trezor knowledge base
{% endhint %}
