# Create a Wallet Backup

Your wallet backup (recovery seed) must be **generated and secured offline** using your Trezor hardware wallet, then duplicated in physical form and stored somewhere only you can access.

Once the backup has been created and written down, check that you can restore your wallet (via a dry-run recovery) before sending any bitcoin or cryptocurrency to an address generated by the device.

Protecting your wallet backup is the most important step in securing your assets!

#### Securing your backup is essential

If your Trezor is lost, stolen, or broken, your backup will allow you to recover your coins and set up a new device. Make sure it is physically backed up in a way that will protect it for the long term, somewhere waterproof and fire-resistant, ideally by using a purpose-built device such as a Trezor Keep Metal.

#### Creating a wallet backup

In Trezor Suite, your backup can be managed through **Settings (âš™ï¸) > Device.**

Trezor wallets only store one backup (recovery seed) at a time. If you have it safely backed up, you can wipe the device and generate a new backup if required.

To create a backup on a new device:

1. Click on **Create Backup.**
2. Your Trezor will generate a list of words that represent all of your public and private keys across all of your coins, for all of your accounts, including your passphrase accounts.
3. Write down all of the words you see **in order,** making sure they are **spelled correctly.** They must be kept in order to recover your funds if you lose access to your Trezor.

**Do not store these words digitally.** Do not take a picture of them or copy them to another device. To protect your backup, use the wallet backup (recovery seed) card from your Trezor box, or a Trezor Keep Metal purchased from the [Trezor Shop](https://trezor.io/accessories).

#### Checking your wallet backup

To verify your backup, follow the process outlined below for your Trezor:

#### Trezor Model One:

* Select the total number of words used in your wallet backup (recovery seed)
* Choose **Standard recovery** to enter the words via your computer, or **Advanced recovery** to use your Trezor. You will need to enter your PIN to begin the process.

**Standard recovery** uses your Trezor to tell you what word to enter into your computer. Some of these might not be part of your backup / seed.

**Advanced recovery** keeps words and their order isolated on your device. Click the grid to navigate through words according to the location shown on your Trezor screen.

Once you have finished entering your wallet backup, Trezor Suite will confirm if it is correct or not.

#### Trezor Model T:

Spell out the words using your Trezor screen. You will never need to enter your wallet backup anywhere but on the device.

#### Trezor Safe 3:

Spell out the words using the buttons on your Trezor. You will never need to enter your wallet backup anywhere but on the device.

#### Trezor Safe 5:

Spell out the words using your Trezor screen. You will never need to enter your wallet backup anywhere but on the device.



> ðŸ’¡ Learn more about [using a wallet backup (recovery seed)](https://trezor.io/learn/a/how-to-use-a-wallet-backup) on the Trezor knowledge base
