# Set up a recovery seed

Your recovery seed must be **generated and secured offline** using your Trezor hardware wallet, then backed up in physical form and stored somewhere only you can access.

Once the seed has been created and written down, check that you can restore your wallet using the seed before sending any cryptocurrency to an address generated by the device.

Protecting your recovery seed is the most important step in securing your cryptocurrency.

#### Securing your recovery seed is essential

If your device is lost, stolen, or broken, your recovery seed will allow you to recover your coins and set up a new device. Make sure your seed is physically backed up in a way will protect it for the long term, somewhere waterproof and fire-resistant.

#### Creating a recovery seed

In Trezor Suite, your seed can be managed through **Settings (⚙️) > Device.**

Trezor wallets only store one recovery seed at a time. If your seed is backed up, you can wipe the device to create new recovery seeds.

To create a backup on a new device:

1. Click on **Create Backup.**
2. Your Trezor will generate a list of words that represent all of your public and private keys across all of your coins, for all of your accounts, including your passphrase accounts.
3. Write down all of the words you see **in order,** making sure they are **spelled correctly.** They must be kept in order to recover your funds if you lose access to your Trezor.

**Do not store these words digitally.** Do not take a picture of them or copy them to another device. To protect your backup, use the recovery seed card from your Trezor box or a steel tool from the [Trezor Shop](https://trezor.io/accessories).

#### Checking a recovery seed

To verify your seed is correct you will need your recovery seed with you. The process is slightly different for both Trezor models.

#### Trezor Model One:

* Select the total number of words used in your recovery seed
* Choose **Standard recovery** to enter the words via your computer, or **Advanced recovery** to use your Trezor. You will need to enter your PIN to begin the process.

**Standard recovery** uses our Trezor to tell you what word to enter into your computer. Some of these might not be part of your seed.

**Advanced recovery** keeps words and their order isolated on your device. Click the grid to navigate through words according to the location shown on your Trezor screen.

Once you have entered your recovery seed into the device, Trezor Suite will confirm if your recovery seed was correctly entered or not.

#### Trezor Model T:

Spell out the words using your Trezor screen. You will never need to enter your seed phrase anywhere but on the device.

> LIGHTBULB Learn more about [using a recovery seed](https://trezor.io/learn/a/how-to-use-a-recovery-seed) on the Trezor knowledge base
